---
title: "Sites I like"
date: 2026-02-21
summary: "thoughts on applying to so so so many places"
---
If you don’t want to read this personal essay, that’s fine! I will be updating my DSGE for dummies article shortly :) and writing up the list of articles and books I’ve read in the past five-ish weeks. I have not forgotten to blog; I have just done a lot of writing for several intensive applications and didn’t feel like writing anything else.

On that topic: it is strange applying to programs as a low income student, particularly those that want me to talk about my experiences as a student from an underrepresented background.

My background has isolated me at times. Working a job and also studying a rather intense subject (no, not economics) has been difficult to juggle. Time is invaluable as a student, yet it is the case that I know the exact value of an extra hour spent studying and not working. Many of my friends don’t worry about money like I do; this has produced some very clear divergences between our paths. Balancing finding internships that pay well with internships that would help my applications to predocs and graduate school has been extremely difficult. For instance, a recruiter at a large asset manager reached out recently—and to be honest, I am tempted!

I have also met a lot of skepticism along the way. I have been asked why I don’t just take the leap and drop out to earn several times my family’s yearly income. I have been repeatedly told I should not take the path I’m on, that going to graduate school in economics would fit the status quo too well, and why should I choose to not participate in the most impactful-life-changing-path-less-taken-chance-of-a-generation schemes available to me as a student at a rather tony university? Why not drop out and work in AI research or join a B2B SaaS startup? 
 
I do not have a strong rebuttal. I simply believe that it is fine to take the well trodden path if it hasn’t been walked by people like me before. Before accounting for factors like socioeconomic status, women of color receive but a small fraction of doctorates in economics. My grandmothers did not have the chance to attend higher education or work outside the home, and my mother only had the chance to take classes at a community college—I will be the first on her side to actually go to graduate school. 

When applying to programs that want me to specifically talk about adversity, it feels a bit disingenuous. I most definitely have not suffered the most out of the applicant pool; after all, there is a roof over my head and I go to a university well known for affording social mobility to people like me. 

But I must admit that I feel very vulnerable and embarrassed when talking about my life, as mediocre and uneventful as it has been. These programs want to know every little detail about me: how much do my parents make? Do you qualify for Pell? Are you first generation? One program even made sure to receive my permission to participate in a study with the demographic data in the application I filled out. As an economist in training, I understand why they want this data. After all, it would be wonderful if economists at elite institutions could pat ourselves on the back for publishing a paper in QJE that shows that having programs like these helps people access a profession that has been proud to be perched above us. And therein is where it feels weird. I know that studying lifetime outcomes of low income young adults is supposed to be good for developing optimal public policy, but it certainly feels a bit strange to be under the microscope. I also do not want to have my story compete with hundreds, if not thousands of other students who want a shot at a future their parents could not have given them. I am in sort of disbelief at the notion of being in a RCT with all of these other students that compares the effect of program participation on our future successes—and failures if we don’t get lucky. But anyways, if I get into one of these programs, I will be over the moon. Maybe I’m only experiencing a bit of storytelling burnout. I just wish economics would do more as a profession to create a welcoming culture for students without the luxury of a parent with a PhD, without a near-Faustian bargain and the price of my soul. 
